README.md, before:

# Automatic Control Knowledge Repository (ACKRep) Data

This repository holds the data for the ACKRep project. Due to the subject and the concept of
that project, data consists mainly in source code and metadata.

# Basic Concept of ACKRep


The project aims to represent knowledge (in the field of automatic control) in a special way:
as a combination of *problem-specifications* and *problem-solutions*. Both, problems and solutions
can be represented by software modules. To ensure integrity and reproducability,
solution-modules are checked automatically against the respective problems. To facilitate the
operation of this process, some metadata and some other components are also managed in this repo.
Alltogether there are the following entities:

- problem class
    - e.g. Trajectory Planning for Mechanical Systems
- problem specification
    - e.g. Swingup control for the Acrobot with specific parameters
- problem solution
    - e.g. Invocation of an allgorithm which calculates a swingup trajectory for the acrobot
- method package
    - e.g. A collection of functions which together implement an algorithm to calculate state space
    transitions for dynamical systems
- docs
    - e.g. A mathematical description of that algorithm e.g. as `.tex`-file
- environment specification
    - A set of rules to setup a software environment such that the above software components
    can be executed
- comments
    - A structured way to add remarks or questions to an entity

**Summary**: In some sense ACKrep translates the concept of continous integration from software
engineering to research in automatic control.


# Data Structure

Every entity consists of a subdirectory with a special structure.

## Metadata
All entities have a file `metadata.yml` which contains both generic data (applicable to all entity types) and type specific
data. Data format is [YAML](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/YAML) (human-readable data-serialization language).

Naming convention: Attributes, files or directories starting with underscore have a special meaning. In most cases they are
autogenerated by software.


### &lt;generic metadata&gt;

- key
    - (identification key; uppercase alphanumeric string of length-5)
- name
    - (string of length <= 40)
- short_description
    - (string of length <= 500)
- version
    - (string like  1.2.3)
- tag_list
    - (list of strings)
- creator
    - (string)
- editor_list
    - (list of strings (email addresses or aliases) )
- creation_date
    - (string of format `YYYY-MM-DD hh:mm:ss`)
- related_doc_list
    - (list of keys (referring to doc-entities))
- related_dataset_list
    - (list of keys (referring to dataset-entities))
- external_references
    - (list of strings, plain text format (ISO 690), preferably with doi)
- notes
    - (string)

---

### Problem Class
- `metadata.yml`
    - &lt;generic metadata&gt;
- `README.md`

---

### Problem Specification

- `metadata.yml`
    - &lt;generic metadata&gt;
    - problemclasses
        - (list of keys)
    - compatible_environments
        - (list of keys)
    - problemfile
        - (string like  "problem.py")
- `README.md`
- `dependencies.yml`


#### `problem.py` example

```python

import numpy as np
from scipy.integrate import odeint

from ackrep_core import ResultContainer

class ProblemSpecification(object):
    """
    DoubleIntegratorTransition
    """
    xx_start = (0, 0)
    xx_end = (1, 0)
    T_transition = 1
    constraints = {"x2": [-3, 3], "u1": [-5, 5]}

    @staticmethod
    def rhs(xx, uu):
        return (xx[1], uu[0])


def evaluate_solution(solution_data):

    # assume solution_data.u_func is callable and returns the desired input trajectory

    P = ProblemSpecification

    def rhs(xx, t):
        u_act = solution_data.u_func(t)
        return P.rhs(xx, u_act)

    umin, umax = P.constraints["u1"]
    x2min, x2max = P.constraints["x2"]

    tt = np.linspace(0, P.T_transition, 1000)

    xx_res = odeint(rhs, P.xx_start, tt)

    # boolean result
    success = abs(xx_res[-1, 1] - P.xx_end) < 1e-2

    success &= all(x2min <= xx_res[:, 1]) and all(xx_res[:, 1] <= x2max)

    uu = solution_data.u_func(tt)
    success &= all(umin <= uu) and all(uu <= umax)

    # a simple score heuristic:
    score = np.clip(1 / solution_data.consumed_time, 0, 10)

    return ResultContainer(success=success, score=score)

```

---

### Problem Solution

- `metadata.yml`
    - &lt;generic metadata&gt;
    - solved_problem_list
        - (list of keys)
    - method_package_list
        - (list of keys; only these method packagess will be available to the software)
    - related_dataset_list
        - (list of keys; only these datasets will be available to the software)
    - compatible_environment_list
        - (list of keys)
    - estimated_runtime:
        - (string of format `hh:mm:ss`; refers to a single core process on a "usual" PC)
    - solution_file:
        - e.g.  `solution.py`
    - postprocessing_file: e.g. `postprocessing.py` (optional)
- `README.md`
- `dependencies.yml`
- `_solution_data/`
    - might be created by the solution code
    - may be used for the postprocessing (e.g. to visualize results)


#### `solution.py` example

```python

def solve(problem_spec)

    # ...
    # solve the problem
    # ...
    return solution_data

```
---

### Method Package
- `metadata.yml`
    - &lt;generic metadata&gt;
    - compatible_environments
- `src/`
    - (contains all source files)
- `makescript.py`
- `README.md`
- `check_integrity.py` (optional)
- `dependencies.yml`
- `_build/`
    - (must be generated by `makescript.py`, should contain a python module or package or something
    equivalent for other languages)

---

## Comment

- `metadata.yml`
    - &lt;generic metadata&gt;
- `parent_keys`
- `comment.md`
- `extra_data`
    - (optional; may contain images etc.)

---

### Environment Specification

- `metadata.yml`
    - &lt;generic metadata&gt;
- `README.md`
- `dependencies.yml`

---

### Data Set
- `metadata.yml`
    - &lt;generic metadata&gt;
    - _size
- `README.md`
- `data/`

---

# License

This repo might contain source code under different free software licenses. Contributors are encouraged to choose *GPLv3-or-later*. Alternatively other official recognized Free Software licenses like *MIT license*, *BSD license* or *Apache license* would also be OK. For any file in this repo, the license is applicable (in this order) which a) noted inside the file itself, b) in a `LICENSE`-file inside the same directory or c) in the nearest parent directory containing a`LICENSE`-file. As the root directory contains a `LICENSE`-file with GPLv3-or-later, this is the default for all subdirectories.

Commit message:

remove entity "dataset" (from README and metadata)

README.md, after:

# Automatic Control Knowledge Repository (ACKRep) Data

This repository holds the data for the ACKRep project. Due to the subject and the concept of
that project, data consists mainly in source code and metadata.

# Basic Concept of ACKRep


The project aims to represent knowledge (in the field of automatic control) in a special way:
as a combination of *problem-specifications* and *problem-solutions*. Both, problems and solutions
can be represented by software modules. To ensure integrity and reproducability,
solution-modules are checked automatically against the respective problems. To facilitate the
operation of this process, some metadata and some other components are also managed in this repo.
Alltogether there are the following entities:

- problem class
    - e.g. Trajectory Planning for Mechanical Systems
- problem specification
    - e.g. Swingup control for the Acrobot with specific parameters
- problem solution
    - e.g. Invocation of an allgorithm which calculates a swingup trajectory for the acrobot
- method package
    - e.g. A collection of functions which together implement an algorithm to calculate state space
    transitions for dynamical systems
- documentation
    - e.g. A mathematical description of an problem or algorithm e.g. as `.tex`-file or an different kind of documentation
- environment specification
    - A set of rules to setup a software environment such that the above software components
    can be executed
- comment
    - A structured way to add remarks or questions to any entity

**Summary**: In some sense ACKrep translates the concept of continous integration from software
engineering to research in automatic control.


# Data Structure

Every entity consists of a subdirectory with a special structure.

## Metadata
All entities have a file `metadata.yml` which contains both generic data (applicable to all entity types) and type specific
data. Data format is [YAML](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/YAML) (human-readable data-serialization language).

Naming convention: Attributes, files or directories starting with underscore have a special meaning. In most cases they are
autogenerated by software.


### &lt;generic metadata&gt;

- key
    - (identification key; uppercase alphanumeric string of length-5)
- name
    - (string of length <= 40)
- short_description
    - (string of length <= 500)
- version
    - (string like  1.2.3)
- tag_list
    - (list of strings)
- creator
    - (string)
- editor_list
    - (list of strings (email addresses or aliases) )
- creation_date
    - (string of format `YYYY-MM-DD hh:mm:ss`)
- related_doc_list
    - (list of keys (referring to doc-entities))
- external_references
    - (list of strings, plain text format (ISO 690), preferably with doi)
- notes
    - (string)

---

### Problem Class
- `metadata.yml`
    - &lt;generic metadata&gt;
- `README.md`

---

### Problem Specification

- `metadata.yml`
    - &lt;generic metadata&gt;
    - problemclasses
        - (list of keys)
    - compatible_environments
        - (list of keys)
    - problemfile
        - (string like  "problem.py")
- `README.md`
- `dependencies.yml`


#### `problem.py` example

```python

import numpy as np
from scipy.integrate import odeint

from ackrep_core import ResultContainer

class ProblemSpecification(object):
    """
    DoubleIntegratorTransition
    """
    xx_start = (0, 0)
    xx_end = (1, 0)
    T_transition = 1
    constraints = {"x2": [-3, 3], "u1": [-5, 5]}

    @staticmethod
    def rhs(xx, uu):
        return (xx[1], uu[0])


def evaluate_solution(solution_data):

    # assume solution_data.u_func is callable and returns the desired input trajectory

    P = ProblemSpecification

    def rhs(xx, t):
        u_act = solution_data.u_func(t)
        return P.rhs(xx, u_act)

    umin, umax = P.constraints["u1"]
    x2min, x2max = P.constraints["x2"]

    tt = np.linspace(0, P.T_transition, 1000)

    xx_res = odeint(rhs, P.xx_start, tt)

    # boolean result
    success = abs(xx_res[-1, 1] - P.xx_end) < 1e-2

    success &= all(x2min <= xx_res[:, 1]) and all(xx_res[:, 1] <= x2max)

    uu = solution_data.u_func(tt)
    success &= all(umin <= uu) and all(uu <= umax)

    # a simple score heuristic:
    score = np.clip(1 / solution_data.consumed_time, 0, 10)

    return ResultContainer(success=success, score=score)

```

---

### Problem Solution

- `metadata.yml`
    - &lt;generic metadata&gt;
    - solved_problem_list
        - (list of keys)
    - method_package_list
        - (list of keys; only these method packagess will be available to the software)
    - compatible_environment_list
        - (list of keys)
    - estimated_runtime:
        - (string of format `hh:mm:ss`; refers to a single core process on a "usual" PC)
    - solution_file:
        - e.g.  `solution.py`
    - postprocessing_file: e.g. `postprocessing.py` (optional)
- `README.md`
- `dependencies.yml`
- `_solution_data/`
    - might be created by the solution code
    - may be used for the postprocessing (e.g. to visualize results)


#### `solution.py` example

```python

def solve(problem_spec)

    # ...
    # solve the problem
    # ...
    return solution_data

```
---

### Method Package
- `metadata.yml`
    - &lt;generic metadata&gt;
    - compatible_environments
- `src/`
    - (contains all source files)
- `makescript.py`
- `README.md`
- `check_integrity.py` (optional)
- `dependencies.yml`
- `_build/`
    - (must be generated by `makescript.py`, should contain a python module or package or something
    equivalent for other languages)

---

## Comment

- `metadata.yml`
    - &lt;generic metadata&gt;
- `parent_keys`
- `comment.md`
- `extra_data`
    - (optional; may contain images etc.)

---

### Environment Specification

- `metadata.yml`
    - &lt;generic metadata&gt;
- `README.md`
- `dependencies.yml`

---

# License

This repo might contain source code under different free software licenses. Contributors are encouraged to choose *GPLv3-or-later*. Alternatively other official recognized Free Software licenses like *MIT license*, *BSD license* or *Apache license* would also be OK. For any file in this repo, the license is applicable (in this order) which a) noted inside the file itself, b) in a `LICENSE`-file inside the same directory or c) in the nearest parent directory containing a`LICENSE`-file. As the root directory contains a `LICENSE`-file with GPLv3-or-later, this is the default for all subdirectories.
